---
title: One Nation Under God
date: 2016-11-09 00:45:00 Z
catergory: Events
sm-image: http://masters.edu/media/868789/election.jpg
---

God, in His sovereign will and plan, has allowed Donald J. Trump to lead America for the next 4 years. Our comfort and hope does not rest in any man, but in our promised future. Many Christians prayed for our country and voted yesterday. God hears our prayers and works through people to accomplish His will. For 8 years, Christians have been sidelined and our values, standards and morals have been attacked and belittled. Last night, we grasped onto hope of a brighter future for our country and for our children. We have a president whose promised ideology will put America and Americans first!

Today is an opportunity for us to demonstrate a powerful witness to the watching world. First, we are to respect the results as Romans 13:1 reminds us, “Let every soul be subject to the governing authorities. For there is no authority except from God, and the authorities that exist are appointed by God.” Christians, should live in peace and remember that our first allegiance is to God and his Word. We are called to faithfully continue to be salt and light where He has placed us. As a parent, I am convinced we should set a good example for our kids on how to react. It’s fun to “win” but being humble and clear with our mission is key to a consistent testimony. This election result, and all of the coverage that will follow, should be a chance for us to be deliberate, thoughtful and purposeful in our conversations and actions with those around us.

Additionally, we are told to pray for our leaders and for those in power in James 5:16b “the prayer of a righteous person is powerful and effective.” We have the privilege and opportunity to care about those placed in authority over us. God has proven He can change the hardest hearts; we can’t give up or become complacent. We have to remain faithful and pray for discernment and good judgement for those making decisions. Yesterday’s results should encourage you to pray without ceasing!

Finally, be encouraged believer, we possess an everlasting joy that doesn't depend on the changing circumstances of this life. Elections come and go but our message has not changed; we are called to share the hope we have with our friends and those around us. 2 Corinthians 5:20 tells us that we are ambassadors for Christ (the only true King) and we should beg people to be reconciled to God. Essentially, that is why we are left on earth in the first place. We aren’t left here to enjoy our temporary victories; we are left to plead with people to turn from their sins and to embrace the good news of the Gospel to be saved. 1 Peter 3:15 reminds us to be ready to give an answer to every man. It is imperative to become an expert in what is true and redeem the time that we have!

Our Christian witness should not be tarnished by over-zealous partisan politics. Christians, throughout history, have had to live under wicked rulers and challenging times. Today, it looks like, we have a reprieve from direct attacks but we remember what Jesus said. He promised us that the world will hate us in John 15:18 “If the world hates you, you know that it hated Me before it hated you.” May our Christian witness grow brighter and our message louder and more passionate. We are encouraged in 2 Timothy 4:2 “Preach the word! Be ready in season and out of season.” Keep your eyes on the truth and your hearts fixed on His accomplished work at the cross and remain faithful in doing good.