---
title: Maciej Flis
date: 2017-10-19 17:18:00 Z
published: false
---

Maciej Flis is an active performer and teacher in the Los Angeles area. During the past years he played bassoon as co-principal with the American Youth Symphony where he served five seasons. Since then, Maciej has appeared with numerous groups such as, Los Angeles Symphony, Long Beach Opera, San Diego Symphony, Center Stage Opera, Bakersfield Symphony, Santa Monica Symphony, Golden State Pops Orchestra, Burbank Philharmonic, Brentwood Symphony, Dream Orchestra, Ventura Ballet Company, LA Korean Philharmonic and also performed with the Rubinstein Philharmonic Orchestra in Poland. Since 2005 he has been principal bassoonist of the Conductors Institute Orchestra at Bard College in New York. Maciej also performed with many chamber groups such as Jacaranda, New Century Players and wildUp. As a recording artist, Maciej performs on films and television. He took part in numerous music festivals in the United States, Mexico, Asia and Europe. Maciej is fortunate to have collaborated with some of the world’s famous artists and musicians, including as Yo-Yo Ma, Burt Bacharach, John Waltz, Yefim Bronfman, Kent Nagano, Carl St. Clair, John Williams, Alan Silvestri, Esa-Pekka Salonen, Anshel Brusilow, Larry Livingston, Monica Mancini, Yundi Li, Charles Fox and Il Volo. Many of his performances have been featured on the Los Angeles classical radio stations, K-Mozart and KUSC. Maciej was featured soloist with the Orange County Symphony in the "Five Sacred Trees", Concerto for Bassoon and Orchestra by John Williams. Maciej Flis is also the bassoonist of the Midnight Winds, LA based ensemble with captivating presence and musical imagination. Young Artists International selected Midnight Winds to appear in recitals throughout Southern California in 2008. That year also marked the ensemble’s first international tour during which they presented concerts and workshops throughout Europe. They have been featured guest artists at the Schneider Concerts Series in New York, South Bay Chamber Music Society, Paderewski Festival, California Institute of the Arts, LACMA’s Sundays Live, Los Angeles City College, an educational outreach residency through Orchestras of Pasadena, and quintet-in-residence for Chamber Music Sedona, Arizona. In 2010, the ensemble recorded and premiered a new commission by Emmy award-winning composer Steve Cohn, a work written for the ensemble. Today, the Midnight Winds maintain a strong relationship with the Polish Music Center where they frequently collaborate with international artists and composers. The Midnight Winds was back in the studio to record for a retrospective of David Rosenboom’s works, released on New World Records in 2012. Maciej studied with many wonderful teachers such as Krzysztof Kaminski, Stephen Maxym, Judith Farmer and Julie Feves.