---
title: Andrew Malloy
date: 2018-01-23 18:11:00 Z
---

Andrew Malloy is a New Hampshire native and attended the University of Massachusetts where he graduated magna cum laude with a Bachelor of Music Education degree. He continued his education at The Juilliard School where he received a Master of Music in Performance. After living and working in New York City he relocated to Los Angeles where he now works as an active freelance musician. He performs as a regular member of the Pasadena, Santa Barbara and New West Symphonies and The Crown City Brass Quintet. In addition, he works with most of the leading musical organizations in the Los Angeles area. These include the Los Angeles Philharmonic, LA Opera and Los Angeles Chamber Orchestra as well as the Long Beach Symphony. He teaches trombone at Cal State University, Northridge and The Master's University. Active in the area as a solo recitalist, he commissioned and premiered eleven works for solo trombone and trombone and piano. He has produced a solo album, BEST OF FRIENDS, including these new works and other works never published or recorded. The solo CD is available at www.cdbaby.com and at www.amazon.com. In March, 2012 the CD, PAPER CLIPS was recorded in Boston and released by Parma Recordings on their Navona label, distributed by Naxos. This album is a two CD set consisting entirely of solo works for trombone that he commissioned. He co-produced two successful Christmas CDs, CAROLS FROM THE BELLS, which utilize 16 top LA trombonists to perform arrangements of Christmas carols. These albums were created as a funding resource for The Hearts of Music, a non profit organization formed to assist musicians and their families suffering financial difficulties due to health issues and related expenses. He has presented solo recitals at CSUN, Pepperdine University, Connecticut, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and in Washington DC as well as appearing as soloist with the Pepperdine Wind Ensemble and the US Army Band in Washington, DC, CSUN Wind Symphony and the Beach Cities Symphony. In the recording field, Mr. Malloy has recorded for many well-known film composers and performed on hundreds of film soundtracks.

In addition to his performance and teaching work he currently serves as a member of the board of directors of Local 47 of the American Federation of Musicians, a local comprised of approximately 7,000 members and served as president of the Los Angeles chapter of the Recording Musicians Association from 2013-2015.