---
title: Janet Crouch Shulman
date: 2018-01-23 19:31:00 Z
department: Music
position: Adjunct Faculty, Cello
---

Janet Crouch Shulman studied cello at the Royal College of Music in London with Anna Shuttleworth and at the Royal Academy of Music with Derek Simpson. Subsequently she took lessons from Ralph Kirshbaum and William Pleeth. Janet has performed with the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra, the Philharmonia Orchestra of London, Glyndebourne Opera, the Britten Sinfonia, the Hollywood Symphony Orchestra, the London Sinfonietta and the Academy of Ancient Music, under such conductors as Vladimir Ashkenazy, Christopher Hogwood, Giuseppe Sinopoli, Sir Colin Davis and Sir Simon Rattle. She has played solo cello for The Rambert Dance Company, The Royal Shakespeare Company, Kenneth Brannagh's 'Renaissance Theatre Company' and recorded many Television and Film soundtracks in London and Los Angeles, including the BBC and the major Hollywood movie studios (with the Hollywood Studio Symphony Orchestra). She also has a particular interest in chamber music and has worked with many leading groups including the Endymion Ensemble, the Almeida Ensemble and as guest cellist with the Britten Quartet and the New Hollywood String Quartet. Janet was assistant professor of cello at the Royal College of Music, London, from 1987-1999. She has taught privately and at many institutions, including Hindhead School of Music, Youth Music Center (London), Reading Youth Orchestra in the UK, and Malibu String Academy in the USA. In 2009 she was appointed adjunct professor of cello at The Masters University, Santa Clarita. She teaches cello at her home studio in Topanga, and is also a fully qualified and experienced teacher of the Alexander Technique