---
title: Kellie Cunningham
date: 2018-01-26 21:47:00 Z
image: "/uploads/Cunningham,%20K.jpg"
department: Music
job-title: Adjunct Professor, Pedagogy
---

Prof. Kellie Cunningham is an Instructor of Piano Pedagogy, Group Piano, and Collaborative Piano at The Master's University, where she directs the Piano Kids program and administers the annual Invitational Piano Festival. In addition, she co-directs the Women’s Chamber Choir at TMU as well as directing an 80-voice children's choir at Grace Community Church in Sun Valley. A nationally certified teacher of music (NCTM), she has been teaching piano lessons since 2000, and currently maintains a private piano studio in Valencia, CA. She received her Master’s degree in Music Education, with an emphasis in Piano Pedagogy, from the University of Oklahoma and was awarded B.A. degrees, summa cum laude, in Communication and Music from The Master's University. She has received numerous awards, including the Margorie Martin Caylor Scholarship Award and the Gail Boyd de Stwolinski award for Excellence in Teaching, as well as recording as a solo vocalist on a Grammy-Award-winning album. She has also presented both nationally and internationally on piano pedagogy topics. She currently chairs the Committee for Students and Young Professionals for the 2019 National Conference on Keyboard Pedagogy and has previously chaired the Scholarship Committee for NCKP. She is a member of the Music Teacher's National Association (MTNA), the Music Teachers Association of California (MTAC), the National Federation of Music Clubs (NFMC), and the California Scholarship Federation (CSF). Kellie is committed to seeing music education as a means to instill a love for creativity and beauty in her own life and the lives of her students, ultimately as a reflection of her Lord Jesus Christ.