---
title: Marissa Honda
date: 2018-01-23 19:25:00 Z
position: Adjunct Faculty, Oboe
---

Marissa Honda is a freelance oboist and teacher in the Los Angeles, CA area. She has performed with the New West Symphony, Kaleidoscope Chamber Orchestra, Fresno Grand Opera, Opera San Luis Obispo, Los Angeles Musicians Collective and others. In 2014, she won the English Horn position with the Fresno Philharmonic Orchestra and she also currently holds the position of English Horn in the American Youth Symphony. She has spent summers performing at the National Orchestral Institute, the Atlantic Music Festival , the Idyllwild Summer Arts Festival, the Lake George Music Festival Orchestra and others. Marissa has received honors as a soloist, winning the Fresno Musical Club Bell T. Richie Award for Advanced Musicians, the Fresno Youth Symphony Concerto Competition, and has been featured on KVPR Young Artists Spotlight. She can periodically be seen as an on screen musician for the FOX TV series GLEE.

A passionate teacher of students of all ages, Marissa coaches woodwinds and double reeds at high schools and middle schools across Los Angeles. She has taught recorder to elementary school students as a mentor for the USC Thornton Outreach program, and in summer has returned to the Central California area to teach recorder and Orff at KidMunity Music camp. She has also taught basic music theory and appreciation at A Place Called Home—an after-school activity center in South Central Los Angeles. She maintains a private oboe studio in Los Angeles. Marissa has studied and participated in masterclasses with Nancy Ambrose King, Marion Kuszyk, Ariana Ghez, Elaine Douvas, Toyin Spellman, Sherry Sylar, Barbara Northcutt and others. She holds a Bachelors of Music degree from USC in Oboe Performance with a minor in communications, and a Masters of Music degree in Oboe Performance from USC. She is currently pursuing a doctorate degree at USC in oboe performance and music education. Her primary teachers include Rachel Aldrich, Joel Timm, David Weiss and Allan Vogel.