---
title: Phil Webb
date: 2018-01-23 18:33:00 Z
position: Guest Faculty, Voice
---

International Opera tenor, Philip Webb, grew up in Liberty, Missouri, the son of a Baptist Minister. It was during his teenage years that Philip began to develop his voice and sing in his father’s church. In 1988 he recorded his second gospel CD, “He Is King” and was heard in churches all over the United States and Canada.

In 1993, after nearly twelve years as a church music minister, Webb was the Grand Prize winner of the Bel Canto Vocal Competition in Chicago, Illinois. First prize was a summer session of intensive opera studies and Webb was encouraged by the renowned bass, Giorgio Tozzi, to pursue a career in opera. He immediately began an intensive program of studies and training. with one of the most renown vocal teachers of her day, Margaret Harshaw, formerly of the Metropolitan Opera and the Indiana School of Music. Since that beginning program into opera, he has continued to study professionally and in 2001 he began a series of studies with the Internationally acclaimed "Verdian" tenor, Carlo Bergonzi in Busetto, Italy. Philip has been heard all across the world and has appeared on the stages of operas theaters such as The Metropolitan Opera of New York, The Vienna State Opera and the Gran Teatre del Liceu of Barcelona and the San Francisco Opera House. His career as a Lyric Spinto tenor has primarily encompassed the operas of Verdi and Puccini, but he continues to develop his voice and his operatic repertoire. In the next few years audiences will hear him begin to add more German roles to his stage repertoire, beginning with Erik at the Metropolitan Opera and the National Center for the Performing Arts in Beijing, China.

Philip's short career has encompassed a wide spectrum of roles and their interpretations, however, he is equally at home singing gospel music as that is where he first began singing. He is very active in the music at Grace Community Church in Sun Valley, CA. He and his wife Barbara have three children, who have grown up traveling and hearing beautiful music.